# What is Shooting?

A question I'm beginning to feel is worth at least examining in passing as I work on this project is, "what, exactly, is shooting?" both as a mechanic and an aesthetic. A lot of rides undoubtedly make use of shooting as both, but the more I think about it, the more I wonder if there's some greater depth to it than the typical literal gun. For instance, bows, wiffle ball cannons, and webslinging all perform similar mechanical functions of shooting, that is to say hitting a target at a distance, and so maybe there are some more interesting uses of it that also don't depart entirely from a rationale (such as the shooting wrenches in Benno's Great Race at Ferrari world).

The hand tracking in the Webslingers ride, as well as the "ninja stars" of the Lego Ninjago ride, do suggest a new space of "shooting" that's based more in gestural production than any weapon-like prop. Things like magic spells or elemental powers (Ex. the Avatar animated franchise) also seem like immediate possibilities. This question of gesture can even be extended in some measure to gun-like devices, as the Toy Story Mania ride uses wiffle ball cannon's that operate via a pull-cord. This is particularly notable to me as I've spoken with some who find this motion (which uses the elbow more so than the finger to actuate) far more accessible. Even something such as the arm cannons found in Metroid and Mega Man would surely operate via a different gesture than a typical gun.

The dynamics of aiming might also be elaborated further, for example, some shooting rides involve some amount of "fall off", requiring that one anticipate the arc of the projectile rather than a straight shot. Hypothetical designs in this same vein might include delays on firing, such as with a black powder cannon, or horizontally arced paths such as with a boomerang.

Next, the kind of target might be considered. Shooting enemies is of course the favoured style, but more abstract targets are also seen in many family-oriented rides, and outside the more modern sphere of explicitly gamified shooting rides with scores, more traditional shooting galleries and early shooting dark rides were about activating special effects and animation in the scene, and so often involve targets that are environmental rather than human.

This is all far from exhaustive, but for the moment I think this sets down some preliminary thoughts about the possibel multiplicity within shooting as both a mechanic and aesthetic. 
