# Process Journal

## Off to the Races - Tuesday, Mar. 14, 2023

Standing where I am, at the beginning of this project, there are a few pretty big procedural questions I'm going to have to figure out aside from the project itself. Namely, since I'm designing tangible interfaces, how will documenting that manifest in the commit history. I definitely don't have to figure this all out right away, as not all of it will immediately be necessary, but I foresee likely having a lot of weird file types in this repository. Certainly lots of text for thoughts and brainstorming, various software files like Arduino code and TouchDesigner patches, 3D sculpt files in Blender, etc. I guess we'll see where it leads with file size, but I'm gonna sorta play this by ear for now and re-evaluate if it proves to be an issue. As I reach a stage of having working prototypes, I may also have to consider a way to archive photos and videos from playtests.

As for the more substantive side of the project, since I'm creating a themed tangible interface in a vacuum, I will probably begin by brainstorming ideas from popular culture. Normally in a theme park context, I'd be a little constricted by the general theme chosen, but for the purposes of this project I don't think I need to immediately bind my hands to, say, a specific IP. Indeed, as part of my initial research, I suggest that if an overarching theme doesn't have any readily appealing interactions, then maybe the themed experience doesn't need to be interactive at all. As such, I think I'll begin by creating a text file to just vomit interactions onto, and then when I feel I've reached a good critical mass (or really run out of ideas) I'll review them to see what's promising and plausible to turn into a playful experience. In this initial brainstorm, I also don't think I'll limit myself by what's already been done, as I think there probably **is** something to be said for reinventing the wheel, if you find a different and uninteresting way to do it. In surveying theme park interactivity, there are certainly several pairs of the same nominal interaction (driving cars, flying spaceships, casting spells, shooting web) that are executed differently, and although in many of these cases there seems to have been a "correct" choice, i son't want to immediately assume that's always the case. Alright, off to go set up a document to brainstorm and I'll probably check back in once I have some sort of list compiled.

## Circling Back - Sunday, Apr. 16, 2023

So I'm writing this right before I jump back into this project from a short hiatus. When I left off, I'd just realized I'd run afoul of my own design principles and so felt I needed to realign a little bit. Although I haven't been working on this project actively for a little while, I *have* been thinking about it on the back burner. I'm going to add to my blue sky document, but this time I'm gonna start with some top lists of popular video games, movies, or books, and try to see which affordances stand out most prominently.

Dropping a list of top watched Twitch games into my document, I'm immediately struck at how many are just fps-based. Probably about half of them are in some measure shooting oriented, with many of those being explicitly just about thooting each other, so maybe shooting really just is a superlatively popular mechanic. One thing that does also strike me at first blush, however, is that again there's considerable variability in the aesthetic and mechanical space around shooting as a core affordance. For instance, Overwatch has a very different tone from Counter Strike, and games like Fortnite or Resident Evil have considerably more than just shooting, such as dancing, building, and puzzles.

One of those last examples, Fortnite, is of particular interest to me, because I know the dance emotes within the game, while popular cosmetics, are also occasionally invoked as gameplay mechanics, such as Taco Time and the Boogie Bomb. I can't say I know all that much about Fortnite or the precise public opinion on these uses of the emotes, but I think it merits further investigation, as the interaction of shooting and dancing seems pretty unique other than maybe a tenuous connection to wild west "making someone dance" scenarios. With a bit more research, this might be a promising initial design to start prototyping in some sort of dance-mediated laser tag situation.

One particular caution I want to just set down here specifically so I can check-in on it later, is that I am very cognizant that a list of popular games to *watch* may not neccesarily reflect popular games to play, so as I go about my analysis, I'll probably be looking to draw in some lists of popular games, perhaps from Steam play time or some such metric.

## Late Night Inspiration - Wednesday, May 24, 2023

I'm realizing just how much of my design work takes place in short 5-10min spurts in between larger blocks of daily activity. I'm realizing this because, with this need to document, I find myself mostly *not* thinking about this project because I know I won't be able to document it while it's fresh. That said, when I have let a thought slip through the cracks, they've largely been around a loose exploration of ways to adapt something like Overwatch to laser tag.

However, I'm writing this journal entry because I was just struck by an idea while browsing Twitter and seeing a tweet about the new Square Enix game FoamStars comparing it to Splatoon. This made me realize this may, in fact, be a more interesting model to explore, using shooting, but shooting as vector towards the environment rather than towards other players neccesarily. It could use some formulation of laser tag technology to indicate in the environment, but in conjunction with machine vision and projection mapping to create the ink splotches. This feels like a much more compelling exploration because, again, I think this is a more unique application of "shooting", both because it's primarily at the environment rather than other players, and because it's more about coverage than precise targeting. As I've look at to some degree in previous entries, this is a deployment of the affordances of shooting, but with a slightly different mechanic and tone. This all said, I don't actually know Splatoon's gameplay cycle very well, so I think I'll have to watch some Splatoon and circle back with notes.

## Playing on the Job - Sunday, July 30, 2023

I was able to finally get my hands on a copy of Splatoon 2 for Nintendo Switch (borrowed from the TAG games library), and have started playing through it. It confirms some of my initial thoughts from observation, but so far I've only been playing in single-player mode as I adjust to the controls and mechanics.

Having played a bit of Splatoon now, the mobility question really feels like it's capturing a "slippery" sort of aesthetic. It doesn't quite trail off, like slipping in socks on a tile floor, but it still has an element of that feel, in the nuanced dynamics. That said, it does also correlate very strongly to areas you've inked in your team's colour. This makes an alternating process of inking and swimming feel like it must be essential for competitive play and the feel of the game.

In terms of controls, I've also really come to appreciate that the game has some unique ones. It has a stick to move and a stick to look around, but it also has a tilt control for fine-grain aiming. This perhaps has less relevance to a physical translation of the game, but it was intriguing nonetheless and does impart it's own unique flavour to playing, so I don't want to entirely lose sight of this as a potentially salient detail.

Aesthetically, I really noticed two details, one specific, the other more general. Specifically, the ink looked like it had glittery flecks in it, which just feels like a nice aesthetic detail to keep in mind. More generally, I realized how much of this "gun that shoots fluid" and "surfaces covered in fluid" dynamic reminds me of Super Mario Sunshine, a game I have fond memories of from childhood, and which also had some pretty unique use of "shooting" in the form of a water gun backpack. I'm still going to press forward with the Splatoon idea, but I want to spend some more time considering the appeal of goo (see also Nickelodeon and 80s/90s media as a whole) and it's place in "shooting" based experiences.


## Too Cool in School - Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023

I haven't made any immediate updates to other documents, but I wanted to add some thoughts, however, having now beaten the solo campaign of Splatoon 2. My first thought is that there are a variety of levels that partially simulate multiplayer by pitting you against a number of much stronger AIs in an arena context. This makes me feel more confident that I understand the multiplayer experience to some extent, even without playing it.

That said, I've also noticed street fashion, pop music, etc are prominent, though not entirely totalizing themes within the game. There's definitely a sense that the squid culture in the game is very affixed on "cool" and it feels like both the inking and the mobility mechanics feed into that, as if you're doing graffiti and skateboarding. Notably, there are even mechanics where you "grind" on rails, despite your lack of board. This gives me an even stronger sense that the slick, fast-paced mobility mechanics are essential to the experience.

I was also struck that the credits for the game take the form of names spray painted onto a concrete wall that scrolls upwards, though notably most of the names and images are obscured unless you spray them with ink (controlled by reticle and trigger as the names scroll). This suggests to me that, at least to the game developers, there was a strong sense that shooting ink was a compelling enough mechanic to a) program it into the credit crawl and b) that players would be sufficiently motivated to actually unveil the credits themselves via the mechanic. This reinforces the obvious fact that shooting is central to the franchise, but also backs up the previous observation of inking framed like street murals or graffiti— as a kind of aspirational "cool" activity. Funnily enough, this does also circle back to the fact that the basic principle I'm employing for simulating the ink shooting is drawn from a projection mapping graffiti project.

I think these observations regarding pop culture and street art is precisely would I struck on in my previous conference paper— that rather than *tell* someone they're a street artist, it is preferable to give them the affordances to feel they embody the role, and let them draw their own conclusions about identity. This is perhaps neither here not there beyond the fact that it feels like a vindication of the proposed methodology from that paper, that in the process, I've struck upon exactly the phenomena outlined in theory.

## Through a Ride Darkly - Sunday, November 12, 2023

Currently writing from a cousin's house in the suburbs of Boston, as I conduct a tour of theme park conferences and trade shows. With my brain understandably turned towards questions of theme parks, I had an idea as I was falling asleep last night that may solve some of my ongoing design concerns. Namely, rather than adapt Splatoon directly to a laser tag model, as I have been doing. Maybe the thing to do is to consider Splatoon as adapted to a dark ride. This would bring the project closer to an endeavour that might be carried out in a park, but also, I think, would solve some of the concerns about safety. A ride vehicle can have motion dynamics that are faster or slower, while otherwise ensuring the safety of the rider, even in a dark environment. This might solve the issues I was having trying to figure out how to make the slippery mobility mechanics of Splatoon work in physical space. As for how to execute the project, Mickey's Runaway Railway ride also makes considerable use of projection technology to incredible effect and so this might be leveraged for a dark ride where you have to paint the environment, perhaps also while targeting octoling enemies to minimize the territory they claim back. Such a ride could alternatively be set up adversarially between two cars, much the way Men in Black: Alien Attack allows you to shoot the other parallel ride vehicle to send it spinning out of control. These ideas are just some quick spitballing for now, but I want to get them down because I'm about to be tied up with convention activities for the next week, so best to preserve them while I can.
